.TH LS_NAME_VALUE_RD "8" "April 2026" "lsscsi\-0.33" LSSCSI
.SH NAME
ls_name_value_rd \- get an overview of the contents of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ls_name_value_rd
[\fI\-\-empty\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] \fI\-\-utf8\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fI\-\-version\fR] \fIfilename\fR [\fInum_bytes\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
This utility is a helper for the ls_name_value bash script. This utility
may be useful in its own right as it attempts to give an overview of the
contents of the \fIfilename\fR file. If \fIfilename\fR  is regular,
accessible and contains only 7 bit ASCII character (or perhaps only UTF\-8
encoded sequences) then up to the first \fInum_bytes\fR are output to
stdout. Otherwise some description of \fIfilename\fR or its contents are
 output, usually between "<" and ">". For example if \fIfilename\fR is
a "character device" then "<char device>" is output.
.PP
The \fInum_bytes\fR command line argument is optional and is the maximum
number of bytes to read from \fIfilename\fR. Its default value is 80 .
.PP
When errors are detected, sending a description back via stdout is
preferred over more traditional techniques (e.g. sending an error message
to stderr and setting a non\-zero exit code). For example if \fIfilename\fR
is not found then "<not found>" is output to stdout and the exit code is
zero.
.PP
Any null characters (in C: '\0') found in the contents (value) are skipped
(suppressed) while any ASCII control characters (less than space apart from
the null character) and the 0x7f character are replaced by a space. Note
that all output to stdout is
.B not
ended with a '\\n' character.
.SH OPTIONS
Arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-empty\fR
in many cases the value (contents) associated with \fIfilename\fR is empty.
By default, nothing will output to stdout. When this option is given, if
the value is empty, the string '<empty>' is output to stdout.
.br
Additionally, if this option is given twice, if \fIfilename\fR is regular,
accessible and only contains the '\\n' character (a linefeed) then "<LF>"
is output to stdout. Note that if this option is not given twice then
that '\\n' control character would be replaced by a space in the output to
stdout.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print out the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-utf8\fR
when examining the contents (value) of \fIfilename\fR file once the top bit
of a byte being set is detected, the default value output will be
either "<contains non\-ASCII chars>" or "<might be UTF\-8>". If a non UTF\-8
byte is detected then the whole "value" is considered non\-ASCII. If a
truncated UTF\-8 code point is detected (truncated due to \fInum_bytes\fR)
then if that is the only (partial) UTF\-8 encoded sequence then the "value"
is considered non\-ASCII, otherwise it is consider UTF\-8. When this option is
given instead of outputting "<might be UTF\-8>" the UTF\-8 string itself
is output to stdout. For the actual UTF\-8 encoded sequences to be rendered
the locale must be set appropriately. For example on the author's
laptop 'env | grep LANG' yields "LANG=en_CA.UTF\-8" and UTF\-8 encoded
sequences are rendered properly.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase level or verbosity.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
prints out the version string then exits.
.SH NOTES
The \fIfilename\fR is opened read\-only and with the O_NONBLOCK flag set.
If the user does have permissions to open \fIfilename\fR
then "<cannot access>" is output to stdout. If the user does have
permission but not read\-only access but does have write\-only access
the "<write only>" is output to stdout.
.PP
Due to that O_NONBLOCK setting when a following read(2) tries to read
from \fIfilename\fR and it is not ready (but might be a bit later) then
that read(2) yields an EAGAIN. This utility will then pause for 10
milliseconds and try again. After 100 retries with the same
outcome (approximately 1 second) this utility will send "<timeout>"
to stdout and exit. Note if any characters were read before that timeout,
and they are 7 bit ASCII, then they may precede that "<timeout>" string.
.PP
The utility "looks through" symbolic links (symlinks). So if \fIfilename\fR
is to symlink to a directory then "<directory>" is output. In the way
this utility works with the ls_name_value bash script, that script takes
care of all the symlink handling. If a symlink is "dangling" then this
utility outputs "<not found>" to stdout.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by D. Gilbert
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a BSD\-2\-Clause license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B ls_name_value(this package)
