.TH LS_NAME_VALUE "8" "April 2026" "lsscsi\-0.33" LSSCSI
.SH NAME
ls_name_value \- for browsing names and corresponding values in sysfs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ls_name_value
[\fI\-\-all\fR] [\fI\-\-dir\fR] [\fI\-\-empty\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR]
[\fI\-\-native\fR] [\fI\-\-nosym\fR] [\fI\-\-num=NUM\fR]
[\fI\-\-otherfs\fR] [\fI\-\-physical\fR] [\fI\-\-show\fR] \fI\-\-utf8\fR]
[\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] [\fI\-\-write\fR] [\fI\-\-\fR]
[\fINAME\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
This bash shell script is designed to give an overview of the (file)names
and their corresponding values in the sysfs pseudo file system found in
Linux. For regular files, only printable (7 bit) ASCII is shown for each
value, on the same line following the (file)name and a colon. That will be
referred to as a "name:value pair" in the following.
.PP
If no \fINAME\fR is given then all regular files in the current directory
have their name:value pairs displayed. Hidden regular files (i.e. those
starting with ".") are not shown. If a regular file is empty (zero length)
then nothing is output for its value except if the \fI\-\-empty\fR option
is given in which case "<empty>" is output. By default directory names and
symbolic links (symlinks) are not shown. One exception is a symlink to
a regular file which is shown like this:
    $ ls_name_value /dev/core
      core \-\-\-> /proc/kcore : <cannot access>
.PP
In this case /dev/core is a symlink to /proc/kcore (and thus /proc/kcore is
called the symlink target). The current user doesn't have permissions to
read that file (because it is "raw" memory) so its value (or the first 80
bytes of its value) is replaced by "<cannot access>". Even if root made
the same invocation, the value most likely would be replaced by this
string "<contains non\-ASCII chars>".
.PP
If one or more \fINAME\fRs are given then their corresponding name:value
pairs are displayed. An exception is if only one \fINAME\fR is given and
that is a directory (or a symlink to a directory) then that directory is
entered and all regular files in that directory have their name:value pairs
displayed.
.PP
A simple example follows where "power_role" is a regular file:
    $ ls_name_value /sys/class/typec/port1/power_role
      power_role : [source] sink
.PP
The value part of the name:value pair is output when the name is a readable,
regular file. Furthermore the value is output if it only contains 7 bit ASCII
characters, if not "<contains non\-ASCII chars>" is output instead. By
default, up to 80 characters are output, that number can be changed with the
\fI\-\-num=NUM\fR option. If the name has write permissions set for the
accessing user and no read permissions set then the value is replaced
by "<write_only>". If the name is a regular file and cannot be read from
then the value is replaced by "<cannot access>". If the value cannot be read
within 2 seconds, the value output is "<timeout>".
.PP
This script is designed to obtain an overview of adjacent name:value pairs in
the same or nearby directories. This is done at the expense of accurate
renderings of the associated values. Other tools may be used to get better
renderings of particular values, for example the
.B od
and
.B hd (hexdump)
Unix commands if the value contains binary data.
.PP
This script may also be suitable for other pseudo file systems, but not
if they pause a Unix read(2) waiting for an event to occur. The tracefs
pseudo file system has waiting read(2)s and this is an issue since an
instance of tracefs is often mounted under sysfs (e.g. /sys/kernel/tracing ).
Due to this issue, every time this script tries to enter a directory, it
checks if it is still in the original file system instance. If not, it
does not enter and outputs a "<different filesystem>" message.
Here is an example that shows this when two \fINAME\fRs are given on
the command line:
    $ ls_name_value \-d /dev /sys
      >> enter directory: /dev
          core \-\-\-> /proc/kcore : <cannot access>
      >> not entering directory: /sys : <different filesystem>
.br
This occurs because /dev is contained in an instance of the devfs file
system while /sys is contained in an instance of sysfs.
.PP
The filenames in each directory are read with the
.B ls
command. If the \fI\-\-all\fR option is given then "ls \-A" is used and
that adds hidden files. The order in which filenames appear is the same
as the "ls" command which depends on the user's locale. More precisely
the "\-\-zero" option is also used to handle filenames containing "strange"
characters.
.SH OPTIONS
Arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well. The
options are arranged in alphabetical order based on the long option name.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
following Unix practice, by default when filenames in a directory are listed,
those starting with '.' are hidden (i.e. not listed). When this option
is given, filenames starting with '.' are included. The pseudo
filenames '.' and '..' are excluded. For a directory only holding regular
files the number and order in which they are shown is the same as that shown
by the 'ls \-A' command.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dir\fR
When give once, if any files in the \fINAME\fR list are directories, then
this script enters each directory and lists its name:value pairs. Those
name:value pairs are preceded by four spaces to show 1 level of nesting.
If the \fINAME\fR list is empty, then the contents of the current
working directory are used as a name list.
.br
If this option is given twice, then up to two levels directories are
entered. The name:value pairs at the second level are preceded by eight
spaces.
.br
The is a special case when a single element \fINAME\fR list is given and that
name is a directory (or a symlink to a directory). This script will enter
nix that directory and list its name:value pairs without the need for this
option.
.br
The action of this option is similar to the \-maxdepth <n> option in the
Unix find(1) command.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-empty\fR
in many cases the value associated with a filename is empty. By default,
nothing will appear to the right of the colon separating the name and value.
When this option is given, if the value is empty, the string '<empty>' is
output.
.br
Additionally, if this option is given twice, if a filename is regular,
accessible and only contains the '\\n' character (a linefeed) then "<LF>"
is output. Note that if this option is not given twice then that '\\n'
control character would be replaced by a space in the output.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print out the usage message then exit.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-native\fR
this utility uses the
.B ls
command when listing out name:value pairs in a directory. The ls command
sorts the filenames in a directory based on the user's locale. Directories
have a "native" order (probably based on the (time) order of file/directory
creation). That order is the same as what would be seen with the 'ls \-f'
command (hence the choice of short option). When this option is given the
order of the files are shown within a directory is the same as 'ls \-f'.
.br
When multiple file names are given on the command line, that is the order
that they will be processed by this utility, irrespective of this option.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-nosym\fR
in sysfs most symlinks (symbolic links) point to other directories rather
than regular files. Sometimes following symlinks and expanding the directory
adds too much noise so this option prunes out symlinks to directories.
So if used with the \fI\-\-dir\fR option, then normal directories will be
entered but not symlinks to directories. Without this option when the
\fI\-\-dir\fR option is used, both normal directories and symlinks to
directories would be entered.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-num\fR=\fINUM\fR
\fINUM\fR is the maximum number of bytes in the values shown. \fINUM\fR is
required to be greater than zero. The default for \fINUM\fR is 80 bytes.
.br
This option does not apply to the destination path shown for symlinks
or the directory name when descending into that directory.
.br
If attempting to read \fINUM\fR bytes takes longer that 2 seconds then
the string "<timeout>" replaces the value.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-otherfs\fR
as explained in the DESCRIPTION section above, sometimes entering into
directories in other file systems can cause issues. So the default action
is to prune any branch (directory) that is not in the same file system as
the first file (which may be a directory) processed. Giving this option skips
the file system check.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-physical\fR
when this option is given, in the line following "enter directory: ..." the
physical path of the entered directory is shown. It takes the full line with
no indentation and is surrounded by square brackets (because it is a
directory). The output shown is the equivalent of the 'pwd \-\-physical' (
or 'pwd \-P'). That is an absolute path (i.e. starts at the root '/') and
contains
.B no
symlinks. Every distinct file (directory, etc) has a unique physical path
as, in the absence of symlinks, file systems are single parent hierarchies.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-show\fR
usually only regular files are shown in name:value pair format. The main
exception is a directory which this utility will "descend" (or enter)
into (typically due to the \fI\-\-dir\fR option being given). See the
EXAMPLES section below.
.br
Directories that are not visited are not shown by default. Also other file
types, sometimes called "specials" are not shown. Those specials include
char and block devices, named pipes and sockets. Symlinks have a name
within a directory plus they have a target which is a directory path that
may be absolute (i.e. starting the directory root: '/') or relative (i.e.
relative to the location of the directory holding the symlink's name). The
last element of the target path (basename) may "point" to a regular file,
a directory, another symlink, a special file or be "dangling" (i.e. not
pointing to anything valid). Symlinks are also said to be dangling if
any element of their target path is invalid. In the extreme, two symlinks
can target each other forming an infinite loop if any software attempts
to find the "bottom" of the hierarchy.
.br
For other special file types the value is the file type between angle
brackets: <block device>, <char device>, <named pipe>, <socket>. There
are some other file "types" such as <missing>, <write only>
and <cannot access> for a permissions problem.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-utf8\fR
when examining the contents of a file (i.e. the "value" in name:value pairs)
once the top bit of any byte is set, then the default value output
will be either "<contains non\-ASCII chars>" or "<might be UTF\-8>". If a
non UTF\-8 byte is detected then the whole "value" is considered non\-ASCII.
If a truncated UTF\-8 code point is detected (truncated due to
\fI\-\-num=NUM\fR) then if that is the only (partial) UTF\-8 encode sequence
then the "value" is consider non\-ASCII, otherwise it is consider UTF\-8.
When this option is given instead of outputting "<might be UTF\-8>" then the
UTF\-8 string itself is output. For the actual UTF\-8 encode sequences to be
rendered the locale must be set appropriately. For example on the author's
laptop 'env | grep LANG' yields "LANG=en_CA.UTF\-8" and UTF\-8 encoded
sequences are rendered properly.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
increase level or verbosity.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
prints out the version string then exits.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-write\fR
the separator between the <name> and <value> is normally ":". If this option
is given and the filename <name> has both read and write permissions for
the current user then the separator is changed to "+".
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
In common with many Unix commands, the '\-\-' option flags that any further
arguments on the command line are
.B not
options. This becomes important if any filenames start with '\-'. Doing that
is not a good idea, but sometimes fingers slip or programs that generate file
names can be sloppy (or mischievious). With this utility if any given files
or directories (to a maximum depth of 2) could start with a '\-' the adding
the '\-\-' (end of) option(s) will be helpful. This is also the case even
when there are no [\fINAME\fR ...] arguments on the command line.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is an example of the same location with different combinations of the
\fI\-\-show\fR option and the \fI\-\-dir\fR option:
.PP
    $ ls_name_value /sys/class/usb_power_delivery/

    $ ls_name_value /sys/class/usb_power_delivery/ \-s
      pd0 \-\-\-> [../../devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd0]
      pd1 \-\-\-> [../../devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd1]

    $ ls_name_value /sys/class/usb_power_delivery/ \-d
      >> enter directory: pd0 \-\-\-> [ ../../devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd0 ]
          revision : 2.0
          uevent : DEVTYPE=usb_power_delivery
      >> enter directory: pd1 \-\-\-> [ ../../devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd1 ]
          revision : 2.0
          uevent : DEVTYPE=usb_power_delivery

    $ ls_name_value /sys/class/usb_power_delivery/ \-s \-d
      >> enter directory: pd0 \-\-\-> [ ../../devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd0 ]
          device \-\-\-> [../../../USBC000:00]
          [power]
          revision : 2.0
          [sink\-capabilities]
          subsystem \-\-\-> [../../../../../class/usb_power_delivery]
          uevent : DEVTYPE=usb_power_delivery
      >> enter directory: pd1 \-\-\-> [ ../../devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd1 ]
          device \-\-\-> [../../../USBC000:00]
          [power]
          revision : 2.0
          ....

.PP
The location given (/sys/class/usb_power_delivery/) is a directory that
contains two symlinks (pd0 and pd1) and no regular files. Hence the first
invocation finds no regular files so it lists nothing. The second invocation
add the \fI\-\-show\fR option which lists the two symlinks whose targets
are both directories. Directory names are surrounded by brackets (
e.g. "[power]" shown in the last invocation). The third invocation is with
the \fI\-\-dir\fR option which enters (descends into) one level of
directories. The names of the directories entered (actually symlinks to
directories) are shown, together with the regular files found in those
directories (i.e. "revision" and "uevent") together with their
contents (after the ":").  The last invocation uses both the \fI\-\-show\fR
and the \fI\-\-dir\fR options, so the pd0 and pd1 (symlinks to) directories
are entered and their contents are listed. The regular files shown together
with directories (surround by "[" and "]") and the symlink "subsystem" whose
target is a directory (again indicated by the surrounding "[" and "]").
Symlinks are shown with their name followed by "\-\-\->" and then the target
path which is often but not always a directory.
.PP
The next example shows the effect of the \fI\-\-physical\fR option. It
expands on the third example if the above section:

    $ ls_name_value /sys/class/usb_power_delivery/ \-d \-p
      >> enter directory: pd0 \-\-\-> [ ../../devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd0 ]
      [ /sys/devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd0 ]
          revision : 2.0
          uevent : DEVTYPE=usb_power_delivery
      >> enter directory: pd1 \-\-\-> [ ../../devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd1 ]
      [ /sys/devices/platform/USBC000:00/usb_power_delivery/pd1 ]
          revision : 2.0
          uevent : DEVTYPE=usb_power_delivery
.PP
A new line is added after the "enter directory:" line. It is the absolute,
physical path of the directory just entered into. It has no indentation and
is surrounded by "[" and "]" because it is a directory. A physical path
contains no symlinks (in any of its component parts).
.PP
There is no command line option to exclude directories which would be useful
when using the \fI\-\-dir\fR option. A case where this might be helpful is
in procfs (e.g. /proc ) as descending into each running process (thread) may
create a lot of noise and perhaps a loop as the ls_name_value script itself
is creating (and removing) lots of processes (threads) as it scans. Processes
in that directory will match a grep regex like "^[0\-9]" which means starting
with a digit.
    $ cd /proc
    $ ls_name_value \-n 32 \-d  $( ls \-A | grep \-v "^[0\-9]" )
.br
The '\-v' option on grep inverts a selection (e.g. "give me the lines that
do
.B not
match ..."). The above invocation shows up to 32 bytes of the contents
of regular files in /proc and descends into all directories that do
.B not
start with a digit (i.e. information about every running process). For the
directories that it does descend into, it will show up to 32 bytes of the
contents of regular files it finds, indented by four spaces. There still is
a directory called "thread\-self" that is a symlink to the process directory
that is scanned. The \fI\-\-nosym\fR option would prune the "thread\-self"
along with any other symlinks (and there are several). In some senses
symlinks are evil.
.PP
To list the contents of all files called 'connect_type' in sysfs, the
following could be done:
    $ find /sys \-name connect_type \-print0 | xargs \-0 ls_name_value
.br
The output will be one line per match. The 'cat' utility could be used but
ls_name_value guards against long files and files containing binary that
could trash the console output. If there are a lot of matching files then
the maximum size of a command line may become an issue. If so:
   $ find /sys \-name connect_type \-exec ls_name_value {} \\;
.br
should do the trick. If the filename contained spaces then the second version
would have problems. It doesn't in the case of 'connect_type' but sysfs does
contain a few filenames with spaces: "/sys/bus/pnp/drivers/i8042 aux" .
.SH NOTES
This utility's functionality overlaps somewhat with the systool utility.
systool knows the high level structure of sysfs and offers a better overview.
However if information is deeply nested (e.g. /sys/class/typec/ for USB PD)
then this utility gives better "drilling down" facilities. For example the
USB PD source capabilities of an AC adapter powering a laptop may be found
at /sys/class/typec/port1\-partner/usb_power_delivery/source\-capabilities/*
which can be better viewed with this utility.
.PP
In software, hierarchies such as computer file systems are often view as
inverted trees with the root (called "/" in Unix) at the top and files as
leaves at or toward the bottom of the inverted tree. Each leaf has one
and only one parent, and the parent is a (named) directory. This rather
clean (but somewhat restrictive) model is ruined by symbolic links.
.PP
When using this utility on sysfs, the dynamic nature of sysfs (often
reflecting ongoing changes in the system) can upset things. For example
between detecting the presence of a directory within sysfs and this
utility scanning the contents of that directory, that directory might
be deleted (e.g. by the kernel because the hardware it represents has
just been hot unplugged). To get a more stable snapshot (or close to
snapshot) the clone_pseudo_fs utility might be used to clone /sys into
/tmp/sys before this utility is used to data\-mine within /tmp/sys .
.PP
This utility is a bash script but it has a C program helper called
ls_name_value_rd for processing the contents of a file. That was initially
done in the bash script but handling all the corner cases was too complex
and too slow. The ultimate "killer" was the timeout command that takes
around 100 milliseconds even when the data (e.g. reading a sysfs file) is
available immediately.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by D. Gilbert
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023\-2026 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under a BSD\-2\-Clause license. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B lsscsi(this package), od(GNU coreutils), hd(util\-linux), getopt(1)
.B systool(sysfsutils), udevadm(systemd), clone_pseudo_fs(clone_pseudo_fs)
